Post-Mortem for Slack Clone Project

I think that the project went well overall. It seemed to be a good jumping off point of what we have learned as a class. 

I worked with a partner(Melissa), and I think we did well together even though we did not complete all of the instructions. I made a point to make sure that I understood everything we were doing to the best of my ability. We successfully envisioned a method of storing data with the knowledge we had and getting it to work. I can also visualize how I would create channels that link to different chats, but would struggle with the code to get it to work right when I got there. 

Some things that went well were:

	1. Creating the functions to be able to log in from a stored username and password and being able to create new accounts from the browser. 

	2. I spent a fair amount of time working on understanding how react and node worked together so that I could understand where I need to put my code.

	3. I also spent a good amount of time studying sessions and cookies to implement into my code, only to then realize they were already there. I think that while some might think it was a waste of time, it was actually really helpful as it confirmed that I was understanding the resources and also getting more familiar with how the code worked. 

	4. Recognizing the separation of front and back-end files. 

	5. Realizing where react was coming into play. (It wan't as much as I thought).

	6. Working with another person to conceptualize the project and functions needed.

	7. Helping my partner catch up to my code by debugging problems they came across.

What I might do differently in the future:

	1. I know that my functions to read and write to the flat files could have been re-used instead of creating it specifically for each flat file that I had and would likely change this in the future.

	2. I didn't want to get too far ahead of my partner so I didn't work too much on it over the weekend. I focused my attention more on resume editing. However, in the future I think I would spend my time researching next steps and getting more familiar/comfortable with the frameworks we were utilizing.

	3. I need to get more familiar with jQuery as I still don't recognize when I should be trying to implement it into my code. (aka MessageForm)


What was the single most frustrating part of the project?
	I think the most frustrating part of the project for me was needing to slow down to help my partner. The benefit is that I was able to figure out how to explain it which is good for me.

How would you do things differently next time to avoid this frustration?
	IDK, I feel like making sure that everyone on a team is on the same page is important. Maybe in the future I would research the next step/framework more and allow them to take more time to try and debug more themselves before providing another set of eyes?

Were the goals of the project clear to you?
	I think so. The idea was for us to get more comfortable using node and also start understanding and creating a full stack app.

How complete do you think the planning was before the actual commencement of work?  What could have been improved?
	Our planning was not complete as far as the entirety of the project. However, we did plan out each next step before starting and had a general idea of how it would work in the bigger picture. I think it was realistic for our level of coding, but in the future maybe spend more time on the big picture before focusing on the smaller details.
	
Questions this project raised for me
	Mostly questions about react:
		How to maximize the dynamic rendering support it provides.
		How it connects with node.
		The path of the functions and how they worked together and when they worked separately.

Concepts I am pretty comfortable with:
	Separation of the back and front end
	Organization of the back end (pretty well)
	
Concepts I am still fuzzy on:
	How react works
	Organization of the functions for react
	
	
		
